backup-tool/README.md, before:

# Personal media vault (backup tool)

This is a backup tool for Personal Media Vault. Works similar to `rsync`, which can be used alternatively.

## Compilation

In order to install dependencies, type:

```
go get github.com/AgustinSRG/PersonalMediaVault/backup-tool
```

To compile the code type:

```
go build -o pmv-backup
```

The build command will create a binary in the current directory, called `pmv-backup`, or `pmv-backup.exe` if you are using Windows.

## Updating locales

This CLI program uses [go-i18n](https://github.com/nicksnyder/go-i18n) to support multiple languages.

You can install the tool to extract the messages from the code with the following command:

```
go install -v github.com/nicksnyder/go-i18n/v2/goi18n@latest
```

The messages files are named like `active.{LANG}.toml`

## Usage

The tool takes as the first argument the path of the vault, and the second argument the path of the backup folder.

```
pmv-backup </PATH/TO/VAULT> </PATH/TO/BACKUP> [--re-encrypt]
```

The `--re-encrypt` option will ask you for the vault password in order to re-encrypt it with a new encryption key. Use it only if you leaked the encryption key.

Commit message:

Add icons to exe files in Windows

backup-tool/README.md, after:

# Personal media vault (backup tool)

This is a backup tool for Personal Media Vault. Works similar to `rsync`, which can be used alternatively.

## Compilation

In order to install dependencies, type:

```
go get github.com/AgustinSRG/PersonalMediaVault/backup-tool
```

Also, install `go-winres` to embed the icon on Windows:

```
go install github.com/tc-hib/go-winres@latest
```

To compile the code type:

```
go build -o pmv-backup
```

The build command will create a binary in the current directory, called `pmv-backup`, or `pmv-backup.exe` if you are using Windows.

## Updating locales

This CLI program uses [go-i18n](https://github.com/nicksnyder/go-i18n) to support multiple languages.

You can install the tool to extract the messages from the code with the following command:

```
go install -v github.com/nicksnyder/go-i18n/v2/goi18n@latest
```

The messages files are named like `active.{LANG}.toml`

## Usage

The tool takes as the first argument the path of the vault, and the second argument the path of the backup folder.

```
pmv-backup </PATH/TO/VAULT> </PATH/TO/BACKUP> [--re-encrypt]
```

The `--re-encrypt` option will ask you for the vault password in order to re-encrypt it with a new encryption key. Use it only if you leaked the encryption key.
