launcher-gui/README.md, before:

# Slint Rust Template

A template for a Rust application that's using [Slint](https://slint.rs/) for the user interface.

## About

This template helps you get started developing a Rust application with Slint as toolkit
for the user interface. It demonstrates the integration between the `.slint` UI markup and
Rust code, how to react to callbacks, get and set properties, and use basic widgets.

## Usage

1. Install Rust by following its [getting-started guide](https://www.rust-lang.org/learn/get-started).
   Once this is done, you should have the `rustc` compiler and the `cargo` build system installed in your `PATH`.
2. Download and extract the [ZIP archive of this repository](https://github.com/slint-ui/slint-rust-template/archive/refs/heads/main.zip).
3. Rename the extracted directory and change into it:
    ```
    mv slint-rust-template-main my-project
    cd my-project    
    ```
4. Build with `cargo`:
    ```
    cargo build
    ```
5. Run the application binary:
    ```
    cargo run
    ```

We recommend using an IDE for development, along with our [LSP-based IDE integration for `.slint` files](https://github.com/slint-ui/slint/blob/master/tools/lsp/README.md). You can also load this project directly in [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com) and install our [Slint extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=Slint.slint).

## Next Steps

We hope that this template helps you get started, and that you enjoy exploring making user interfaces with Slint. To learn more
about the Slint APIs and the `.slint` markup language, check out our [online documentation](https://slint.dev/docs).

Don't forget to edit this readme to replace it by yours, and edit the `name =` field in `Cargo.toml` to match the name of your
project.

Commit message:

Launcher: Update scripts and README.md

launcher-gui/README.md, after:

# PersonalMediaVault - Launcher

This folder contains the source code of the launcher for PersonalMediaVault.

The launcher is a GUI app that facilitates running PersonalMediaVault in local desktop environments.

This app is made using [Slint](https://slint.dev/) for the interface, and [Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/) as the programming language for the logic.

## Requirements

Make sure to install [Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/) in your system.

Also, install the [slint-tr-extractor](https://crates.io/crates/slint-tr-extractor) tool, to extract translation messages from `.slint` files:

```sh
cargo install slint-tr-extractor
```

If you are in Windows, install the [GetText tools](https://gnuwin32.sourceforge.net/packages/gettext.htm), used to generate the translations files.

## Compiling

Use the compilation script to compile the app for production:

```sh
./build.sh
```

The result will be saved in `target/release`.

If you are compiling in Windows, use the `build.bat` script instead.
